# Computer Science ePortifolio 

## Profressional Self Assessment
    Completing my coursework throughout the program has taught me skills that will help me in any path I chose to follow in the computer science field. While completing this course I learned multiple programming languages, which include Python, Java, and C#. I also learned about SQL and NoSQL databases, and how to maintain them. Additionally, I learned about the different characteristics of the development lifecycle, as well as the distinct aspects of computer software and hardware.
    Throughout the coursework, courses like Software Test, Automation& QA, and Collaboration and Team Project taught me skills like how better communicate with the team and organize your work. These skills and many others learned will help me work in collaboration in a team environment. While going through the Software Development Lifecycle course, I learned about the different stages of development including how to communicate with stakeholders. This course has prepared me to become more employable since it expanded my understanding of how modern software is developed.
    Courses like Machine Learning and Software Develop with C#.NET taught me how to create and maintain code that will be used and improved by others. Even though in most classes our projects were only worked on by one person, these courses improved my understanding of creating professional-level algorithms. Furthermore, a course like Introduction to SQL taught me the importance of computer decentralization, not only for resource allocation but for security reasons as well. Even though no course was exclusively focused only on security, all courses provided me with knowledge on how security is approached in the different fields of computer science.  
    The objective of the project is to use three projects developed in previous terms to create one. The outcome will be one artifact with features from the other three. This project will allow me to show my skills in working with different programming languages and environments. Furthermore, this artifact will illustrate my abilities in using lessons learned in other projects while developing a new one. Finally, this project will illustrate my capacity of adapting to new challenges.

## Code Review
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jh3dXOVigvI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Enhancement One: Software Design and Engineering
#### Artifact One Narrative
  The artifact is the first part of a three-part project. The main project is a hotel booking application that was first developed in the Software Development Lifecycle course. Through the application, the user can pick a hotel and book a room. This artifact will focus on the UI elements of the project. I selected this artifact since it will showcase my skills in creating an application that can be user-friendly and accessible. If an application is not accessible to everyone, from the tech-savvies to the social media only user, then it’s not well thought out. The first idea for this artifact was to list all the hotels on the same page. However, this would clog the main page since each hotel will display a list of the rooms and a short description. To improve, panels were developed and assigned to each hotel that the user can see by going back or forward through them.

## Enhancement Two: Algorithms and Data Structures
#### Artifact Two Narrative
  The artifact is the second part of a three-part project. It will focus on the connection between the application and the SQL Server Database. I selected this artifact since it will showcase my skills in working within different programming environments. The hotel’s information could’ve been stored in the main code. However, this would mean that this could is locked to this dataset. By creating a connection between the code and an exterior database, the code can be reused in other situations. Additionally, the code and the dataset can be maintained separately, meaning that separate teams can work on it simultaneously. 

## Enhancement Three: Databases
#### Artifact Three Narrative
  The artifact is the final part of a three-part project. The main project is a hotel booking application that was first developed in the Software Development Lifecycle course. Through the application, the user can pick a hotel and book a room. This artifact will focus on the SQL Server Database that will hold the two tables for the hotels available to book. I selected this artifact since it will showcase my skills in creating and maintaining a database. Additionally, it will showcase my knowledge of good practices and code security. If the hotel information was coded in the same program as the main code, and something ever happened to the code, all the information would be exposed. In this artifact, this would not be a problem since all data is fictional, but in a real situation, this could cause the company several legal problems. By separating the dataset from the code, all the information stored can be kept in a secure server.
